# fx_value_strategy
FX Value Strategy development using CPI index and Spot, Futures FX data ranging from 2000 to 2025. 
After performing In-Sample analysis, and applying modern Quantitative Strategies techniques such as volatility normalisation, momentum and threshold filters, and signal analysis to optimise the performance, the Sharpe ratio came down to **0.319** and **0.280** for Out of sample analysis and maximum drawdown has not exceeded 5%, which suggests on a low risk strategy to add diversity to the portfolio and trading based on macro indicators to generate stable returns rather than generating high alpha. 
The strategy’s signal reflects the direction of misvaluation of each currency relative to its PPP-implied fair value. To compute this, a relative PPP approach is implemented, which tracks
inflation differentials over time rather than relying on fixed-base-year CPI levels, as in absolute PPP. This allows for a rolling estimation of fair value that adjusts dynamically with changes in
price levels, providing a more robust and realistic measure of currency misalignment. Specifically, I assume that one period (e.g. one year) ago the exchange rate was in equilibrium, and
we project that forward using the inflation differentials to estimate today’s fair value. If the actual exchange rate today differs from this fair value, we have a misvaluation signal. Formally, for each currency pair (USD/CCY), we calculate:
A quick walkthrough on what was done: farir_FX_t = FX_lagged * CPI_change_currency/CPI_change_USD, signal_t = - (actual_FX_t-fair_FX_t)/actual_FX_t where signal value tells us to go long(positive) or short(negative signal).  

 • A signal has been generated by the described logic above

 • The raw signal has generated a Sharpe of -4.3 and cummulative return=3.9% over 20 years

 • After applying normalisation techniques and various filtering methods to avoid weak signals and momentum-driven behaviours of the market, but rather concentrating on the fundamentals, I have achieved a ratio of 0.319 and cummulative return = 30% over 20 years

 • A Lead/Lag and Jackknfe test performed to test the validity of the answers

• An out-of-sample signal with the same filters(3 month momentum and signal strength over 0.2% misvaluation) has been applied. Furthermore, histogram for IS and OOS returns, along with the bootstrap analysis for OOS to validate that returns are within a 95% confidence band  using Monte-Carlo simulation - 200 bootstrap samples for 5 years (2021-2025) has been computed
